Aksenov, A. N. Tuvan Folk Music. Asian Music, Vol. 4, No. 2 (1973), pp. 7-18.


Jeong, Choongwon, Shigeki Nakagome, and Anna Di Rienzo. “Deep History of East Asian Populations Revealed Through Genetic Analysis of the Ainu.” Genetics 202.1 (2016): 261–272. PMC. Web. 20 May 2017.

Nattiez, Jean-Jacques. “Inuit Throat-Games and Siberian Throat Singing: A Comparative, Historical, and Semiological Approach.” Ethnomusicology, vol. 43, no. 3, 1999, pp. 399–418. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/852555. Accessed 25 Nov. 2020.

Levin, Theodore C., and Michael E. Edgerton. “THE THROAT SINGERS OF TUVA.” Scientific American, vol. 281, no. 3, 1999, pp. 80–87. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/26058408. Accessed 25 Nov. 2020.

“Canto a Tenore, Sardinian Pastoral Songs.” UNESCO, ich.unesco.org/en/RL/canto-a-tenore-sardinian-pastoral-songs-00165. 

“How 'Circumpolar' Is Ainu Music? Musical and Genetic Perspectives on the History of the Japanese Archipelago.” Taylor &amp; Francis, www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/17411912.2015.1084236?scroll=top. 

This website was made by Ernest Strauhal to fulfill the Creative Project requirement for World Music (MUFHL 330) under Professor Lisa Beebe at Cosumnes River College.  This project fulfills the relevant, qualitative, creative, and feasible goals outlined in the Creative Project Guidelines document as well as meeting the research requirements for this project.  This project meets the promises that were outlined in the project proposal and was finished before the December 6th due date.  

The project in question was completed across the span of many weeks during the Fall 2020 semester.  Resources used in this essay include JSTOR articles, Wikipedia links, Youtube videos, and miscellaneous articles from the internet.  Rather than prioritizing synthesis, this project is more focused on <i>aggregation</i>, as it includes information from many places in a fun easy-to-read website.


WHAT IS THROAT SINGING?
Throat singing is an amazing, storied tradition of musical expression. A mixture of hoarse, rasping chanting and low, rumbling growls, throat singing has a rich history that spans the globe. It is generally thought to have originated in central Asia, specifically Tiber, Mongolia and Siberia.  Ranging from North America, to Central Asia, even all the way to Africa, throat singing has a very diverse range of people singing it, as well as a very diverse range of musical styles. With that said, I think that there is possibly a connection between most, if not all of these native groups that perform these traditions. Although some connections may not be direct, it is still interesting to look at the possible influences that were passed through these groups.

Throat singers produce their harmonics through a process called biofeedback. This means they raise and lower the fundamental frequency until they get maximum resonance on the harmonics sounding above, like moving a ladder up and down to achieve a desired height. They achieve this by controlling the manner in which the vocal folds open and close. When throat singing, the singer keeps the folds open for a shorter period and closed for longer. The abrupt closure puts greater energy into the upper harmonics, resulting in a clearer sound.

In addition to controlling the rate at which the vocal folds open and close, throat singers also manipulate the fundamental frequency through moving their jaws forward, and narrowing or protruding their lips.


SARDINIA COORDINATES: 40.1209° N, 9.0129° E
JAPAN COORDINATES: 36.2048° N, 138.2529° E
INUIT COORDINATES: 56.1304° N, 106.3468° W
TUVAN COORDINATES: 51.8873,95.6260



SARDINIAN:
Canto a tenore has developed within the pastoral culture of Sardinia. It represents a form of polyphonic singing performed by a group of four men using four different voices called bassu, contra, boche and mesu boche. One of its characteristics is the deep and guttural timbre of the bassu and contra voices. It is performed standing in a close circle. The solo singers chants a piece of prose or a poem while the other voices form an accompanying chorus. Most practitioners live in the region of Barbagia and other parts of central Sardinia. Their art of singing is very much embedded in the daily life of local communities. 

Often it is performed spontaneously in local bars called su zilleri, but also at more formal occasions, such as weddings, sheepshearings, religious festivities or the Barbaricino carnival.
The Canto a tenore encompasses a vast repertoire that varies within Sardinia. The most common melodies are the serenade boche ’e notte (’the voice of the night’) and dance songs such as the mutos, gosos and ballos. The lyrics are either ancient or contemporary poems on present-day issues, such as emigration, unemployment and politics. In this sense, the songs can be regarded as both traditional and contemporary cultural expressions.

JAPANESE:
The Ainu tribes, located in Northern Japan, is known for their throat singing technique called Rekuhkara. Rekuhkara, also performed by two women, is done by two women forming a tube with their hands and then chanting into each others mouths and throats. This cavity acts as a way of the performers using each others mouths and throats as a resonator to give the technique a unique sound. In addition, this technique also utilizes the inhale as a sound, although less so than Inuit throat singing.

Because throat singing as a practice is generally thought to have originated in the Mongolian/Tibetan/Siberian region, it is reasonable to believe that the Ainu could possibly have been influenced by these groups who are close in geographic proximity.Because of the unusual nature of the singing, efforts to revive the practice have emerged in recent years, using old recordings as reference. Similar techniques also exist amongst Inuit cultures, Katajiaq, with the two cultures sharing Siberian heritage, possibly also linking them to Tuvan throat singing.

TUVAN THROAT SINGING
Across the WorldTuvan Throat SingingIn Tuvan throat singing, the performer produces a fundamental pitch and—simultaneously—one or more pitches over that. The history of Tuvan throat singing reaches far back. Many male herders can throat sing, but women are beginning to practice the technique as well. The popularity of throat singing among Tuvans seems to have arisen as a result of geographic location and culture. The open landscape of Tuva allows for the sounds to carry a great distance. Ethnomusicologists studying throat singing in these areas mark khoomei as an integral part in the ancient pastoral animism still practiced today. Often, singers travel far into the countryside looking for the right river, or go up to the steppes of the mountainside to create the proper environment for throat-singing. 

The animistic world view of this region identifies the spirituality of objects in nature, not just in their shape or location, but in their sound as well.[3] Thus, human mimicry of nature's sounds is seen as the root of throat singing. An example of this is the Tuvan story of the waterfall above the Buyant Göl (Deer River in Tuvan), where mysterious harmonic sounds are said to have attracted deer to bask in the waters, and where it is said harmonic sounds were first revealed to people. Indeed, the cultures in this part of Asia have developed many instruments and techniques to mimic the sounds of animals, wind, and water. While the cultures of this region share throat singing, their styles vary in breadth of development.

INUIT THROAT SINGING:
Inuit throat-singing is not singing per se.  Ethnomusicologists suggest that it should be viewed as vocal games or breathing games more than anything else.  Traditionally, they are considered 'games in which one makes noises', as the Inuit would say.  Because of the way they use the voice, the throat, deep breathy sounds, rhythms, as well as its similarity to Mongolian and Tuvan throat-singing, it is now called throat-singing.  It appears that the main reason why ethnomusicologists suggest to call them vocal games is that they do not use only the throat, they also use regular voice.  Traditionally, they are games the women employed during the long winter nights to entertain the children, while the men are away hunting (sometimes for up to a month or more).  As already mentioned, they are generally done by two persons, but sometimes we can find four or more performers singing together.

Inuit throat-singing is done the following way: two women face each other; they may be standing or crouching down; one is leading, while the other responds; the leader produces a short rhythmic motif, that she repeats with a short silent gap in-between, while the other is rhythmically filling in the gaps.  The game is such that both singers try to show their vocal abilities in competition, by exchanging these vocal motives.  The first to run out of breath or be unable to maintain the pace of the other singer will start to laugh or simply stop and will thus loose the game.  It generally last between one and three minutes.  The winner is the singer who beats the largest number of people.


