1. What is your chosen project topic?

I want to do my project on throat singing from all around the world.  I was looking at Tuvan throat singing, but quickly became enamored by all the other types of throat singing around the world like South African throat singing, Mongolian singing and Middle Eastern throat singing.

2. How does this topic relates to our course? (What vocabulary or skills from our class will you use in this project?)

This project will deal intensely with timbre relating to the human body and how air comes in and out of it to produce the sounds we hear in throat singing.

3. Which aspects of this topic will you cover in your project?

Although I have chosen a broad subject, I will hone in on throat singing in individual cultures and pay them the respect they deserve.

4. What will you create for this project?

I will create a curated website that is fully interactive, with videos and animations that pull in the user.  Since I know how to code, I will build the entire website from scratch and create all of the graphics myself.

5. Explain the scope or length of your proposed project.

Since I will be covering a lot of cultures, I need a lot of time so I will start on the project as soon as I get the green light.  I also intend on buying a course to teach myself how to sing from my throat and documenting that as a part of my project.  My project should be able to keep people hooked for around 5-7 minutes.

6. What materials will you need for this project? Do you have access to these materials?

Because this project is presented on the internet, all the tools I need are all digital.

7. How long do you anticipate this project will take you to create? Please summarize your anticipated timeline to complete the project.

I need 1 to 2 months to fully realize my vision.  Upon request, I can show you snippets of what I am working on.

8. What academic sources will you consult for this project? If you have not found any sources yet, where will you go to look?

I've mainly been searching for inspiration on Youtube and trying to listen to as many throat singers as possible.  Of course there are materials for me on the internet, and I will also look into materials on JSTOR.

9. What do you hope to gain from completing this project?

Throat singing.

10. Do you have any questions or concerns about the project?

No.